---
title: Tommyb5k
image: https://media.discordapp.net/attachments/973836097329197066/1312935590580191303/20240323_083019.jpg?ex=674e4e0d&is=674cfc8d&hm=e16168eba9f3456520144783a5d00934de956824e5f9d1451aeea8676f2fa0ab&=&format=webp&width=741&height=741
description: Top 16, Calling Portland. Boltyn Appreciator. 
social:
  facebook: 
  twitter: 
  instagram: 
---

### Who the Hell is Tommyb5k?
  To start, this is the first time I have cashed any Flesh and Blood event. I started playing back in May of 2023.  Our local game store, Sword & Board in Capitola, was just getting its new location up and running and the store owner showed us new Blitz preconstructed decks from History Pack 1 that they had gotten in stock. She told my friend Dexter and I that we should give the game a try, and so we bought Dash and Rhinar. Our friend Manu (who was the ONLY Kanu to day 2 Calling: Portland!) helped us learn the game at a nearby taqueria. He gave really great tips which included: “Yes, pitching an attack with 6 power does count as discarding a card, and triggers Rhinar’s ability!” In short, none of us really knew what was going on, or that this would be the beginning of an insane adventure into this new card game and community that would essentially take over my life up to this point. 

  Fast forward to Fall, I played in my first ever ProQuest as Fai, top 4’d, and right there I decided that I would do whatever it took to become good at this gamet. I managed to top 8 another ProQuest that season, but didn’t win. Then, the following Road to Nationals (RTN) season I won my first ever Tier 2 event playing Kayo! Dexter and my brother Scotty were there, and I was thrilled beyond belief. Especially because I worked so hard on figuring out Kayo, including writing a ridiculous essay on determining whether or not blue Smash With Big Tree was worth playing due to being the only 2 cost Kayo could effectively use at blue. I then went to the Calling at Pro Tour LA, and got absolutely demolished going 0-3 before dropping, doing a side event, and 0-2 dropping that. It wasn’t a great day! But my friend Jack managed to go 4-3 at that Calling on Levia, which was a HUGE deal for our group. We were super proud of him, and I decided from there that a healthy goal for Nationals was going to be to end with a positive record. My friend Clint and I were the only members of our local group to qualify, him from a Draft RTN and me from a CC RTN. So when we prepped, he told me everything for drafting Part the Mistveil and I told him everything I knew about Kayo, and we went in as a team. In the end, I managed to go 8-6! 3-3 at draft, and 5-3 at CC. Nothing crazy, but I met my goal. My partner Zoe top 8’d the cosplay contest there, and I helped her grind for the last tickets we needed to win a big card of Young Kassai which was awesome too. There wasn’t much in the way of big events for me to go to after this, until World Tour: Portland got announced. I knew I wanted to top it. 
